Abdominal aortic aneurysm
An abdominal aortic aneurysm is an enlarged area in the lower part of the body's main artery, called the aorta. The aorta goes from the heart through the center of the chest and belly area, called the abdomen.


An abdominal aortic aneurysm that ruptures can cause life-threatening bleeding.


Treatment depends on how big the aneurysm is and how fast it's growing. Treatment may include regular health checkups and imaging tests to emergency surgery.
Abdominal aortic aneurysms often grow slowly. You might not notice any symptoms. This makes them hard to find. Many start small and stay small. Others get bigger over time, sometimes quickly. Some aneurysms never rupture.


If you have an abdominal aortic aneurysm that's getting bigger, symptoms might include:


Deep, constant pain in the belly area or side of the belly.
Back pain.
A throbbing or pulsing feeling near the belly button.

Baker Cyst
A Baker cyst is a fluid-filled growth behind the knee. It causes a bulge and a feeling of tightness. Also called a popliteal (pop-luh-TEE-ul) cyst, a Baker cyst sometime causes pain. The pain can get worse when with activity or when fully straightening or bending the knee.


A Baker cyst is usually the result of a problem with the knee joint, such as arthritis or a cartilage tear. Both conditions can cause the knee to produce too much fluid.


Although a Baker cyst may cause swelling and discomfort, treating the underlying problem that is causing it usually provides relief.
In some cases, a Baker cyst causes no pain, and you may not notice it. If you do have symptoms, they might include:


Swelling behind the knee, and sometimes in the leg
Knee pain
Stiffness and inability to fully flex the knee
The symptoms may be worse after you've been active or if you've been standing for a long time.

Brain Tumor
A brain tumor is a growth of cells in the brain or near it. Brain tumors can happen in or near the brain tissue. Nearby areas where brain tumors can happen include nerves, the pituitary gland, the pineal gland and the membranes that cover the surface of the brain.


Brain tumors can begin in the brain. These are called primary brain tumors. Sometimes, cancer spreads to the brain from other parts of the body. These tumors are secondary brain tumors, also called metastatic brain tumors.


There are many different types of primary brain tumors. Some brain tumors are not cancer. These are called noncancerous brain tumors or benign brain tumors. Noncancerous brain tumors may grow over time and press on the brain tissue. Other brain tumors are brain cancers, also called malignant brain tumors. Brain cancers may grow quickly. The cancer cells can invade and destroy brain tissue.


Brain tumors range in size from very small to very large. Some brain tumors are found when they are very small because they cause symptoms that you notice right away. Other brain tumors grow very large before they're found. Some parts of the brain are less active than others. If a brain tumor starts in a part of the brain that's less active, it might not cause symptoms right away. The brain tumor could become quite large before the tumor is found.


Brain cancers and brain tumors are not classified by stage as some types of cancer are. Brain tumors are graded from 1 to 4 based on a classification system of the World Health Organization (WHO). Grade 1 brain tumors are the least aggressive and grow slowly. Grade 4 brain tumors are the most aggressive and grow quickly. Grade 4 tumors are typically more difficult to treat and have lower survival rates than lower grade tumors.


Brain tumor treatment options depend on the type of brain tumor you have, as well as its size and location. Common treatments include surgery and radiation therapy.
General signs and symptoms caused by brain tumors may include:


Headache or pressure in the head that is worse in the morning.
Headaches that happen more often and seem more severe.

Delayed Sleep Phase
Delayed sleep phase is a sleep disorder that affects the internal clock, known as circadian rhythm. People with this sleep disorder have sleep patterns that are delayed two hours or more from usual sleep patterns. They go to sleep later and wake later. This makes it hard to wake in time for work or school. Delayed sleep phase also is known as delayed sleep-wake phase disorder.


A treatment plan might include making changes to sleep habits, taking melatonin supplements and using light therapy.
People with delayed sleep phase fall asleep and wake later than they want and later than usual sleep and wake times. Sleep and wake times are delayed at least two hours and may be delayed up to 3 to 6 hours. People with delayed sleep phase may regularly go to sleep at 3 a.m. and wake at 10 a.m., for example.


Symptoms are persistent. They last at least three months and often for years. Symptoms may include:


Not being able to fall asleep at a typical bedtime, known as insomnia.
Trouble waking up in the morning in time to go to work or school.
Extreme daytime drowsiness.
Trouble staying alert during the day.

Sickle cell anemia
Sickle cell anemia is one of a group of inherited disorders known as sickle cell disease. It affects the shape of red blood cells, which carry oxygen to all parts of the body.


Red blood cells are usually round and flexible, so they move easily through blood vessels. In sickle cell anemia, some red blood cells are shaped like sickles or crescent moons. These sickle cells also become rigid and sticky, which can slow or block blood flow.


The current approach to treatment is to relieve pain and help prevent complications of the disease. However, newer treatments may cure people of the disease.
Symptoms of sickle cell anemia usually appear around 6 months of age. They vary from person to person and may change over time. Symptoms can include:


Anemia. Sickle cells break apart easily and die. Typical red blood cells usually live for about 120 days before they need to be replaced. But sickle cells usually die in 10 to 20 days, leaving a shortage of red blood cells. This is known as anemia. Without enough red blood cells, the body can't get enough oxygen. This causes fatigue.
Episodes of pain. Periodic episodes of extreme pain, called pain crises, are a major symptom of sickle cell anemia. Pain develops when sickle-shaped red blood cells block blood flow through tiny blood vessels to the chest, abdomen and joints.


The pain varies in intensity and can last for a few hours to a few days. Some people have only a few pain crises a year. Others have a dozen or more a year. A severe pain crisis requires a hospital stay.


Some people with sickle cell anemia also have chronic pain from bone and joint damage, ulcers, and other causes.


Swelling of hands and feet. Sickle-shaped red blood cells block blood circulation in the hands and feet, which can cause them to swell.
Frequent infections. The spleen is important for protecting against infections. Sickle cells can damage the spleen, raising the risk of developing infections. Babies and children with sickle cell anemia commonly receive vaccinations and antibiotics to prevent potentially life-threatening infections, such as pneumonia.
Delayed growth or puberty. Red blood cells provide the body with the oxygen and nutrients needed for growth. A shortage of healthy red blood cells can slow growth in babies and children and delay puberty in teenagers.
Vision problems. Tiny blood vessels that supply blood to the eyes can become plugged with sickle cells. This can damage the portion of the eye that processes visual images, called the retina, and lead to vision problems.

